### Abstract

A bismuth(III) 1,1’-binaphthyl-2,2’-sulfurylimide complex was designed as a Lewis acid catalyst for asymmetric counteranion-directed catalysis (ACDC). This mode of asymmetric catalysis utilizes easily dissociating chiral ligands that are able to provide a chiral environment via an electrostatic interaction with a positive charge on the substrate. It was hypothesized that utilizing an ACDC approach would circumvent two primary difficulties of asymmetric bismuth Lewis acid catalysis: that strongly-binding chiral ligands tend to render the catalyst inactive by reducing the Lewis acidity of the bismuth center, and that more weakly-binding chiral ligands can partially disassociate, compromising the ability of the chiral ligand to induce chirality due to loss of rigidity. The 1,1’-binaphthyl-2,2’-sulfurylimide ligand, dubbed the JINGLE-type ligand, is highly acidic, contains the privilege binaphthyl backbone, and has a facile synthesis. It hence was identified as a promising ligand for ACDC. A bismuth complex capable of catalyzing reactions asymmetrically is of great interest to the green chemistry movement, as bismuth is inexpensive, has low toxicity, and has a low environmental impact. En route to this target bismuth complex, a proof of principle synthesis of bismuth(III) benzenesulfonamide was attempted. A neat reaction between benzenesulfonamide and triphenylbismuth was utilized, with the hypotheses that the reaction would be thermodynamically favorable due to the pKa difference between benzenesulfonamide and benzene, and that expulsion of benzene would drive the reaction to completion. It was found that the ligand exchange required temperatures above 150  ̊C, and that these temperatures likely caused decomposition of the triphenylbismuth. It was hypothesized that the triphenylbismuth was oxidized to bismuth oxide, based upon the general insolubility of the product, IR data, and mass loss equal to three equivalents of bismuth. 
